{\rtf1 \mac \ansicpg437 \cocoartf102 {\fonttbl {\f0 \fnil \fcharset77 Times New Roman{\*\falt Times}
;}
{\f1 \fnil \fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold{\*\falt Helvetica}
;}
{\f2 \fnil \fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\f3 \fnil \fcharset77 LucidaGrande{\*\falt Lucida Grande}
;}
}
{\colortbl ;\red0 \green0 \blue0 ;}
{\stylesheet {\s3 \nisusnoteplacement0 \nisusreferencestyle7 {\*\nsmpltxt Some text goes here so you can see what your style will look like.}
\f3 footnote text;}
{\s4 \nisusnoteplacement1 \nisusreferencestyle9 {\*\nsmpltxt Sample text for Foot/End Notes Style}
\f3 endnote text;}
}
\deftab720 \defformat \viewkind1 \viewzk1 {\*\nisuswindow \x70 \y232 \w741 \h638 }
\nshwinv0 \nshwpg1 \hyphauto0 \ftnnar \endnotes \aendnotes \aftnnar \fet2 \ftnbj \paperw12240 \paperh15840 \margl1440 \margr1440 \margt1440 \margb1440 \gutter0 \pgnstart1 \nocolbal \sectd \sbknone \cols1 \ltrsect \colbalsxn0 \marglsxn1440 \margrsxn1440 \margtsxn1440 \margbsxn1440 \guttersxn0 \headery720 \footery720 \pgnstarts1 \pgnrestart \pgndec \sxnstarts1 \sxnrestart \sxndec {\header \par }
{\footer \par }
{\pard \ql \sb0 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ilvl0 \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f1 \fs24 \b \cf1 LinkBack Release Notes\par
\f2 \b0 \par
\b LINKBACK 102:\par
\b0 \par
\b LinkBack:\b0  LinkBack has several helper methods to make it easier for you to add a menu item in clients to edit LinkBack content.  Two functions and one method provide the localized string for the menu name.  You should place the menu at the bottom of your edit menu with a separator before it.  Make your validateMenuItem: set the menu title based on the current selection.  You should set your title based on the number of LinkBack items selected:\par
\par
}
}
{\pard \ql \sb0 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ilvl0 \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tqc \tx2520 \tx4820 {\f2 \fs24 \b0 \cf1 \tab \b LINKBACK \par
}
}
{\pard \ql \sb0 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ilvl0 \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tqc \tx2520 \tx4300 {\f2 \fs24 \b \cf1 \tab ITEMS SELECTED\tab USE METHOD/FUNCTION\par
\b0 \tab 0\tab LinkBackEditNoneMenuTitle() \par
\tab 1\tab [linkbackdata linkBackMenuTitle] ;\par
\tab > 1\tab LinkBackEditMultipleMenuTitle()\par
}
}
{\pard \ql \sb0 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ilvl0 \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs24 \b0 \cf1 \par
When the user chooses this menu item, your code should request edits for any selected LinkBack items.  If no LinkBack items are selected, be sure to disable the menu. \par
\par
See Document.m in TextEdit+LinkBack for an example of how to do all this.\par
\par
\b LinkBack:\b0  LinkBack now includes the name of the application and an optional ACTION NAME in the data you place on the keyboard.  You can provide the action name or use one of the two standard action names defined in LinkBack.h.  This action name will be used to construct the LinkBack menu name in client applications.  If you use one of the standard names, (Edit or Refresh) it will be localized.\par
\par
\b LinkBack:\b0  Added a new NSDictionary category with methods for creating and accessing the linkback data you create to put on the pasteboard.  You can still use the original functions to create linkback data, but using these methods will give you access to more information about the LinkBack including the source application, action name, source URL and so on.\par
\par
\b LiveSketch:\b0   now includes Linkback information in its application dictionary.  Will be used by LinkBack in the future.\par
\par
\b TextEdit+LinkBack:\b0  now includes support for the an Edit LinkBack Items menu.  See Document.m -validateMenuItem: and -editLinkBackItems: for examples of how to do this.\par
\par
\b LINKBACK 101\b0 \par
LinkBack: version number included in linkback data \par
\par
LiveSketch: SKTGraphicView.m:1067 -- LiveSketch did not declare the LinkBackPboardType during a copy operation.  This did not cause incorrect behavior, but it was technically incorrect.\par
 \par
1.0alpha -- initial public release}
}
}
